## Exit Interview/Survey

1. On a scale of 1 to 10, with 1 being that you learned absolutely nothing and 10 being where you learned more than you could have imagined, rate this internship on how much you useful knowledge you acquired.
  * For this part, I would rate it a 9. I learned quite a lot from this course that I am very grateful to have absorbed so much knowledge. The usefulness of all of this is incredibly great, since this is the sort of field I'm actually wanting to work in. I know that I will be using all that I have learned throughout my pursuit for this type of career and in the career itself.
2. On a scale of 1 to 10, with 1 being that you hated the course material and 10 being that it was the best thing you have ever seen, rate this internship on the topics covered, the learning materials/courses/resources provided for those topics, and the pace of the material.
  * I'd give the actual quality of the content a 9. All of the curriculum was relevant and built on itself, which is a very beneficial way of learning concepts. The resources were clear and understandable and the pace in which it was provided was consistent but not rushed, so it wasn't very stressful.
3. On a scale of 1 to 10, with 1 being that you found them useless and 10 being that it blew your mind, rate this internship on topics covered outside the "curriculum", such as the software development process, discussions you may have had with team members that are not strictly developers, or crazy tangents on interesting topics that may have come up during conversations.
  * For this part, I would rate it a 9 as well. With discussions of outside topics or questions, I was able to freely ask about them to my mentor, Jake Helman, without feeling like I couldn't or wasn't allowed to. I felt that there was a good mentor/student bond that was formed to where I felt comfortable to ask about anything that had to do with this line of work or other coding concepts or mechanics. I felt that it helped with not only learning the content, but also learning about the expectations that are needed to be upheld in this field.
4. On a scale of 1 to 10, with 1 being that you are changing careers immediately and 10 being that you would start tomorrow if given the opportunity, rate this internship on how it affected your outlook and opinion about software development, in general, and what a career in software might look like for you.
  * I'd give this section a 10. I absolutely love this line of work and felt that this internship has only increased my interest for it. I learned so much more about what I would be using to work in this field as what I would actually need to do if I were in a company doing such things. With software development, it seems to me that you would be working with a team, creating, troubleshooting, and changing code projects that are used for the company. I would need to make sure that parts of it wouldn't break and to update it when needed if there are new elements that need to be added or removed or if there are bug fixes that need to be implemented. While doing this, I would need to make sure that I use my version control skills so that I can not screw up the main product and can mess with fixes on a different branch. In general, I would need to develop software, make sure it runs, and change things around if it needs to be changed.
5. What did you like most about the internship? And why?
  * I really liked the overall concept that the course was trying to convey: the process one has to go through in software/web development. I've definitely learned a lot of tools to put this into action and have really appreciated the actual application of it.
6. What did you like least about the internship? And why?
  * To be honest, I don't really have any complaints. I really enjoyed all of the content!
7. If you could change the internship structure/curriculum/etc and tailor it to better meet your needs, what changes would you make?
  * I feel like the ruby section that was included may of been positioned better after the web-design content, since it was a semi-different part of the curriculum from the rest. Although, it does add a change of pace with it being there and does have relations with Jekyll.
8. If you had the opportunity to continue with the curriculum in the future, would it be something you are interested in?
  * I would be very interested in continuing! Although, I am at the end of the curriculum. I definitely would be more than happy to come back if I were offered.
