---
title: Vi Notes
layout: default
---

# Vi Notes - Vi Survival Guide

1. Intro
 * Vi is truncation of the word "Visual"
2. Basic Crash Course
 * Starts out in NORMAL mode
	- Each keystroke has a special function
 * Insert mode may be more preferable
	- press i in NORMAL mode to change to this mode
	- Acts like a normal editor
	- Switch back to NORMAL mode by pressing ESC
 * Commands
		- :w <ENTER>
			~ write file
		- :wq <ENTER>
			~ save file and quit
		- :w FILENAME <ENTER>
			~ write file as FILENAME
		- :e FILENAME <ENTER>
			~ edit file FILENAME
		- :q <ENTER>
			~ quit
		- :q! <ENTER>
			~ quit without saving

3. Other Modes
	* Guide to NORMAL mode
		- Movement
			* Able to use keys other than arrows to navigate
				* h = left
				* j = down
				* k = up
				* l = right)
			* Some More Movement Keys
				* Inside the line  
					"$"	moves to the end of the line  
					"0"	moves to the beginning of the line  
					"^"	moves to the first non-whitespace character – i.e. the beginning of an indented line.  
				* Movement via words (where a word is a sequence of alphanumeric OR punctuation signs)  
					* w ~	next word  
					* e	~ end of current word  
					* b	~ previous word  
				* Movement via words (where a word is a sequence of non-blank characters)
					* W	~ next word
					* E	~ end of current word
					* B	~ previous word
				* Other Jumps
					* H ~ jump to top of screen
					* L ~ jump to bottom of screen
					* { ~ jump to previous paragraph
					* } ~ jump to next paragraph
					* fx ~ jump to next occurence of character x (where x is any character, of course)
					* tx ~ jump right before next occurence of character x (’till x) (again, x in anything)
					* Fx ~ jump to previous occurence of character x (again, x in anything)
					* Tx ~ jump right after previous occurence of character x (back ’till x) (again, x in anything)
					* G ~ jump to EOF (End of file)
					* LINE G ~ jump to line no. LINE
		- Modifying, Deleting, Copying, Pasting
			* Editing with INSERT mode
				* Main Commands
					* i	~ places you in INSERT mode before the current character.
					* I	~ places you in INSERT mode at the beginning of the line. Same as ^i
					* a	~ places you in INSERT mode after the current character. Same as i+RIGHT-ARROW (or li when not at the eng of the line)
					* A	~ places you in INSERT mode at the end of the line. Same as $a
					* o	~ places you in INSERT mode in a new line below the current one. Same as $i
					* O	~ places you in INSERT mode in a new line above the current one. Same as ko
				* Single Character Deleting/Editing  
					* x	~ delete character under cursor. like (DEL) in INSERT mode.
					* X	~ deletes the previous character. like Backspace in INSERT mode.
					* rx ~ replace the character under the cursor with character x (where x is any character)
			* Editing with NORMAL mode
				* Main Commands
					* d{motion} ~	delete all text up to the destination of movement {motion}
					* c{motion}	~ delete all text up to the destination of movement {motion} and enter INSERT mode (change the text)
					* y{motion}	~ copy (yank in vi-speak) all text up to the destination of movement {motion}
					* p ~ paste (or put) the last deleted, changed or yanked text after the current position
					* P ~ paste (or put) the last deleted, changed or yanked text before the current position
				* Examples
					* dw ~ delete up to the beginning of the next word
					* {c} ~ change current paragraph
					* ywP ~ duplicate word
				*	Special Cases
					* dd ~ deleted current line
					* cc ~ change current line
					* yy ~ yank current line
		- Repetition and How To Avoid It
			* '.' repeats the last command executed
			* Counts are useful to repeat a command a certain amount of times
				* {number}{command}
			* Universal Commands
				* u	undo last command (including INSERT mode sessions)
				* (Ctrl+r)	redo last undone command
	* Ex Mode
		- Command-line like mode
		- gQ ~ Enter ex mode
		- Section 2 commands are ex mode commands
		- Commands (
			* w[rite] ~ [FILENAME]	write file to FILENAME (if given)
			* w[rite]! ~ FILENAME	write file to FILENAME, overwriting if it exists.
			* e[dit] ~ FILENAME	edit FILENAME
			* e[dit]! ~ FILENAME	edit FILENAME without saving
			* q[uit] ~ quit
			* q[uit]! ~ quit without saving
			* ! COMMAND ~ execute shell command COMMAND
			* vi[sual] ~ exit ex mode

4. Searching and Replacing
	* Commands
		- Searching commands (NORMAL mode)
			* /REGEX ~ search for strings matching the regular expression /REGEX/.
			* ?REGEX ~ search for strings matching the regular expression /REGEX/ backwards.
			* n ~ go to next occurence
			* N ~ go to previous occurence
		- Replacing commands (EX mode)
			* s/foo/bar/ ~ replace the first occurence of foo on the current line with bar
			* s/foo/bar/g ~ replace all occurences of foo on the current line with bar
			* %s/foo/bar/[g] ~ perform s/foo/bar/[g] on every line in the file.
			* X,Ys/foo/bar/ ~ perform s/foo/bar/[g] on every line between line # X and # Y.

5. Appendix
	* syntax 	syntax highlighting
	 1. Appendix 1: VISUAL mode
		- Commands
			* v ~ Enter normal VISUAL mode
			* V~ Enter VISUAL LINE mode
			* (Ctrl+v) ~ Enter VISUAL BLOCK mode
		- normal VISUAL mode
			* Character specific selection
		- VISUAL LINE
			* Line specific selection
		- VISUAL BLOCK
			* Block specific selection
	 2. Appendix 2: Multiple Windows
		- Use ex command 'help usr_08' to get to relevant section in online documentation
		- Window-related ex commands
			* split ~ horizontally split the current window and display the current buffer (=file) in the new window
			* vsplit ~ vertically split the current window and display the current buffer in the new window
			* new ~ horizontally split the current window and create a new buffer in the new window.
			* vnew ~ vertically split the current window and create a new buffer in the new window.
			* only ~ destroy all other windows.
			* only! ~ destroy all other windows, discarding unsaved changes
			* q ~ destroy the current window.
			* qa ~ destroy all windows (exiting vim)
			* qa! ~ destroy all windows (exiting vim), discarding unsaved changes
		- Window-related NORMAL commands
			* (ctrl+w) or h ~ move one window left
			* (ctrl+w) or j ~ move one window down
			* (ctrl+w) or k ~ move one window up
			* (ctrl+w) or l ~ move one window right

6. Final Words
	* STAY AWAY FROM INSERT MODE (as much as you can)

# Vi Notes - Learn VIM Progressively

 * Guide for reading
	- Ctrl-(x) is written as <C-(x)>
 * Steps to teach yourself VIM
	1. Survive
	2. Feel comfortable
	3. Feel Better, Stronger, Faster
	4. Use superpowers of Vim

1. Survive
	* Commands
		- i → Insert mode. Type ESC to return to Normal mode.
		- x → Delete the char under the cursor
		- :wq → Save and Quit (:w save, :q quit)
		- dd → Delete (and copy) the current line
		- p → Paste

2. Feel Comfortable
	* Insert mode variations
		- a → insert after the cursor
		- o → insert a new line after the current one
		- O → insert a new line before the current one
		- cw → replace from the cursor to the end of the word
	* Basic Moves
		- 0 → go to the first column
		- ^ → go to the first non-blank character of the line
		- $ → go to the end of line
		- g_ → go to the last non-blank character of line
		- /pattern → search for pattern
	* Copy/Paste
		- P → paste before, remember p is paste after current position.
		- yy → copy the current line, easier but equivalent to ddP
	* Undo/Redo
		- u → undo
		- <C-r> → redo
	* Load/Save/Quit/Change File (Buffer)
		- :e <path/to/file> → open
		- :w → save
		- :saveas <path/to/file> → save to <path/to/file>
		- :x, ZZ or :wq → save and quit (:x only save if necessary)
		- :q! → quit without saving, also: :qa! to quit even if there are modified hidden buffers.
		- :bn (resp. :bp) → show next (resp. previous) file (buffer)

3. Better. Stronger. Faster.
	* 3.1 Better (repeating)
		* . → (dot) will repeat the last command
		* N<command> → will repeat the command N times.
	* 3.2 Stronger (moving)
		* NG → Go to line N
		* gg → shortcut for 1G - go to the start of the file
		* G → Go to last line
		* Word moves
			- w → go to the start of the following word,
			- e → go to the end of this word.
		- By default, words are letters and underscores. WORDS are separated with spaces (Use caps)
			- W → go to the start of the following WORD,
			- E → go to the end of this WORD.
		* Efficient move commands
			- % : Go to the corresponding (, {, [.
			- * (resp. #) : go to next (resp. previous) occurrence of the word under the cursor
	* 3.3 Faster (Command clarification)
		* Most commands use following format
			- (start position)(command)(end position)

4. Vim Superpowers
	* 4.1 Move on current line: 0 ^ $ g_ f F t T , ;
		* Commands
			- 0 → go to column 0
			- ^ → go to first character on the line
			- $ → go to the last column
			- g_ → go to the last character on the line
			- fa → go to next occurrence of the letter a on the line. , (resp. ;) will find the next (resp. previous) occurrence.
			- t, → go to just before the character ,.
			- 3fa → find the 3rd occurrence of a on this line.
			- F and T → like f and t but backward.
		* Useful tip: dt" → remove everything until the "
